---
kind: article
created_at: 04 January 2016
title: Best of 2015
tags: ['blog']
---

#Best of 2015

##Inspired by [this article](http://blog.fogus.me/2015/12/29/the-best-things-and-stuff-of-2015/) I've decided to share my own thoughts about the year 2015

#Best books

This year I've read very nice amount of books (something about 3000+ paper pages in total which is a pretty impressive number for me), the best of them are: 

- *Bloger and Social Media* and *The blog* by Jason Hunt - great read for blogers - author shows the backstage of blogging art and share some handy tips for beginners
- *Metro 2033: Mrówańcza (Murancha)* by Ruslan Melnikov - very good sci-fi novel for Metro 2033 universe fans (also great material for screening!)
- *The Road* by Cormac McCarthy - touching story about love between father and his son in post-apocalyptic world - I recommend it for every father out there.

#Best movies

- *Avengers 2: Age of Ultron* - I'm a big fan of Marvel movies (and not much of the comic series) and I watch every new production out there with joy. The newest part is a great, simple and fun (not as the previous part but it's still a good movie)
- *Mad Max: Fury Road* - I've really enjoyed the Mad Max classics, and the newest movie from this franchise was very similar. Practical special effects (instead of CGI ones) for the win!
- *Boruto* and *Naruto: The Last* - great anime movies about ninjas. I'm watching Naruto serie from the very beginning and it's a great feeling to see how the characters grows with You :)

#Best TV series

- *Mr. Robot* - I've really enjoyed the first 3/4 part of the serie, but really don't like the finale. In short: a story about hackers (not comedy).
- *Game of Thrones (5th season)* - this was a good season - nice amount of action, less talking. I think this show doesn't need any further description.
- *Sillicon Valley* - awesome comedy about startups, first IT-related TV serie which I watch with my wife - both of us can't wait for next season!
- *Shingeki no Kyojin (Attack on Titan)* - nice anime about war between humanity and titans in the steampunk world. Very good animation and storyline.
- *Naruto Shippuuden* - another great anime, I'm watching it since episode 01 from classic Naruto serie. I skip filler episodes very often (too boring). 
- *Sword Art Online* - third anime in this juxtaposition. If You like adventures where real life mixes with MMORPG virtual one - it will be a pretty interesting production for You.

#Best music

As many of You already know, my primary source of music is called [hype machine](http://hypem.com) - it's a great source of new, underrated, non-mainstream music (especially electronic/dnb/dubstep/remixes):

- Florence and the Machine: Cosmic Love (Seven Lions remix) - because I just love remixes done by Seven Lions - especially this one
- Futurecop!: Atlantis 1997 feat. Cavaliers of Fun - Futurecop is my 2015 found, this music is in super-dooper-retro-90s style :)
- Goldhouse: When I come home - very nice, positive & calming track
- Hopium: Dreamers feat. Phoebe Lou - my absolute 2015 favorite track
- Mitis feat. Colin Mcloughlin - Born (Vocal Mix) - very nice mix of gr8 track & vocals
- Coyote Kisses: This is how You know - just a great piece of music
- Seven Lions: Days to Come feat. Fiora - awesome female vocals & music
- Seven Lions feat. Kerli: Worlds Apart - same as above - love the vocals and sounds - my 2nd favorite track in the 2015
- Panic at the Disco: This is Gospel & Emperor's New Clothes - those two tracks has great music & videos!
- Nightcore: You're not Alone - nice vocals, reminds me good days of Dakota Star's music
- Nightcore: Somewhere to Run - awesome sounds, awesome vocals, awesome remix - best power/code booster during 2015 
- Zedd: Find You ft. Matthew Koma, Miriam Bryant - classy Zedd beats from his early days + Matthew Koma vocals - should I have to add anything more?
- Beartooth: In Between - my absolute favorite rock-related track of 2015 - vocals are awesome, I wish Beartooth would make more tracks like this (with less metal vocals)

#Most frequently visited websites & blogs

- [http://theultralinx.com](http://theultralinx.com) - awesome website about minimalism & to find inspiration
- [http://minimallyminimal.com](http://minimallyminimal.com) - personal blog of Andrew Kim - my favorite young designer
- [http://www.truevalhalla.com](http://truevalhalla.com) - personal blog of a indie game developer, based in Australia - very inspiring, his monthly income reports are a great motivation
- [http://news.ycombinator.com](http://news.ycombinator.com) - a.k.a. HackerNews - my daily news source
- [http://packtpub.com](http://packtpub.com) - free e-book every day

#Technology

2015 was the year of Django and Meteor.js for me. During this year I've written multiple front-end interfaces for Django apps and bootstrapped Meteor.js app prototypes.

Recently I've switched from Meteor.js to Intel XDK while building mobile apps. I've found it even more easy to work with, especially  when You need to develop an app to multiple platforms (Windows Phone included!).

During the last quarter of the year, I had multiple projects based on Wordpress. They required a bit better than basic knowledge of this tool (Wordpress) to complete. Constraint of learning Wordpress led me to better understanding this tool and eventually enjoyment of working with it. This fact (and couple others which I plan to write about in next article) in turn led me to make a decision to learn PHP language. 

Yes, I'm the guy who tried Ruby, Python, Node.js and now decided to learn PHP.

Also, I plan to master regular expressions and pure SQL query language.

#Life hacks

- Twitter: don't follow more than 40 profiles - during my 5 years on twitter I've found that this number is just fine for me. This hack also forces more curation of my current followings so it fits more for my current interests.
- Work: last month of 2015 was super productive for me. I've noticed that I worked in ~50min-long sprints during the day (without distractions like checking e-mails/twitter etc.) which increased my coding performance greatly.
- Life 1: leaving work in the exact time - if I delay leaving work just with 3 minutes - it will increase my commuting to home from 20 minutes to 30 - 35, because of traffic difference.
- Life 2: replace classic coffee by coffee substitute (cereal) - first couple days can be hard to manage without caffeine, but now I've get used to drink it. I've also started to drink more herbal teas.
- Life 3: drink electrolytes - just try it too - You'll notice health improvement very quickly.

And that's all folks! I put big plans and hopes for the new year, which makes me really excited about it, I hope You all will go through the new year even better than previous one!

best,

-- ł.
